# AI-Squat-Coach-Biomechanical-Posture-Analysis-Scoring-and-Coaching-System
An interactive program that allows you to input your side squat photo, help you evaluate across 6 biomechanical metrics, and finally outputs a total score(weighted from six sections' scores), six seperate feedbacks and an image with your joints, skeleton line, and scores.
# YouTube Video Link:
https://youtu.be/-1pqmw_WX3o
# Journey: 
The most difficult part is how to set up relatively scientific standards of squat and make the AI scoring not against common sense and maybe even more reliable than human beings. I did a lot of research on how to measure a good squat. (All the research findings are listed in the #notes of my code.) The most important thing I realize is that almost every standard needs to take squat depth into consideration. For example, torso angle and knee over toe should have more tolerance if you squat deeper, and I need to adjust my scoring function accordingly. I spent so much time resetting the standards and testing my samples. 
At first, I tested on 7 sample photos to make sure my AI at least "has my ability" to evaluate "not squat", different levels of "incorrect squat", different levels of "correct squat."(Which means AI's rating is up and down maximun 7/100 deviation of my scoring.) Later, I added 13 more samples including three of myself's live photo to compare my score and AI's score to test if my AI squat coach is more reliable than me. The results show that it is! Sometimes I became biased bacause of the person's outfit or body shape. However, my AI is more unbiased. I'm really happy about my results.
